




Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)                    M. Welen, Ed.
Internet-Draft                                             Atea Sverige
Intended status: Standards Track                          March 18, 2026
Expires: September 18, 2026


         Universal Authenticated Sender Identity (UASI)
                      draft-uasi-framework-01

Abstract

   This document defines the Universal Authenticated Sender Identity
   (UASI) framework, a cross-protocol sender authentication framework
   that unifies identity, key discovery, and verification policy
   across Internet protocols.  Where established signing mechanisms
   exist (HTTP Message Signatures [RFC9421], DKIM [RFC6376] for
   SMTP), UASI profiles them and adds DNS-based key discovery and
   unified policy.  Where no signing standard exists (MQTT, CoAP,
   WebSocket), UASI provides native signing.  The framework enables
   any sending entity -- whether a mail server, an API endpoint, an
   IoT device, or a messaging service -- to assert its identity in a
   manner that receivers can independently verify.  UASI supports
   multiple trust tiers (DNSSEC-verified, HTTPS-verified, and DNS-
   unsigned) and is designed to be incrementally deployable alongside
   existing authentication mechanisms.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current
   Internet-Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six
   months and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other
   documents at any time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts
   as reference material or to cite them other than as "work in
   progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on September 18, 2026.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document.  Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with
   respect to this document.  Code Components extracted from this
   document must include Revised BSD License text as described in
   Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided
   without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.



Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
   2.  Terminology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
   3.  Problem Statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
   4.  Architecture Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
   5.  Trust Model . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
   6.  Identity Model  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
   7.  Key Publication and Discovery . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
   8.  Signature Format (Native Adapters)  . . . . . . . . . . .  32
   9.  Protocol Adapters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  38
   10. Unified Verification Procedure  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  52
   11. Policy Layer  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  59
   12. Migration and Coexistence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  65
   13. Security Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  69
   14. IANA Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  80
   15. References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  84
   Appendix A. Example Flows . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  87
   Appendix B. Comparison with Existing Mechanisms . . . . . . .  95
   Appendix C. Selector Management Patterns  . . . . . . . . . .  97
   Appendix D. Changes from draft-uasi-framework-00  . . . . . . 100
   Acknowledgements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103
   Authors' Addresses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103


1.  Introduction

1.1.  Background

   The Internet was designed in an era of implicit trust between
   communicating parties.  As the network grew from a small research
   community to a global infrastructure carrying commerce, governance,
   and personal communications, the absence of built-in sender
   authentication became an increasingly severe liability.

   The consequences are visible across every layer of the stack.
   Email suffers from phishing and spoofing despite decades of
   incremental improvements through SPF [RFC7208], DKIM [RFC6376],
   and DMARC [RFC7489].  Webhook receivers have no standardized way
   to verify that an incoming HTTP request genuinely originated from
   a claimed service.  IoT devices routinely accept commands without
   verifying the identity of the sender.  API consumers rely on
   shared secrets and bespoke token schemes rather than
   cryptographic identity.

   Each protocol community has addressed this gap independently,
   producing solutions that are:

   o  Protocol-specific: DKIM works for email but not MQTT.  HTTP
      Message Signatures [RFC9421] works for HTTP but not CoAP.

   o  Partial: SPF authenticates the sending IP, DKIM authenticates
      message content, DMARC ties them to the domain -- yet all three
      are needed for reasonable email authentication.

   o  Opt-in: Deployment requires active configuration by both
      senders and receivers, resulting in decades-long adoption
      curves.

   o  Inconsistent: The identity model, key distribution mechanism,
      signature algorithms, and policy semantics differ across every
      protocol, making cross-protocol security reasoning difficult.

1.2.  Observations

   This framework is built on three observations:

   (1) The fragmentation problem is real.  Organizations that operate
       across multiple protocols must configure and maintain separate
       authentication systems for each, with inconsistent identity
       models, key management, and policy semantics.

   (2) Good signing mechanisms already exist for some protocols.
       HTTP Message Signatures [RFC9421] provides a mature,
       flexible signing framework for HTTP.  DKIM [RFC6376] has
       been deployed for email authentication for over a decade.
       These mechanisms lack standardized cross-protocol key
       discovery and unified policy, but their signing primitives
       are sound.

   (3) Protocols without signing standards still need one.  MQTT,
       CoAP, and WebSocket have no standardized message-level
       signing mechanism.  For these protocols, UASI provides
       native signing.

   UASI therefore takes an adapter-based approach: where signing
   standards exist, UASI profiles them and adds DNS-based key
   discovery and unified policy.  Where no signing standard exists,
   UASI provides native signing.  The cross-protocol identity model,
   key discovery procedure, and unified verification/policy engine
   are the core contributions.

1.3.  Goals

   The Universal Authenticated Sender Identity (UASI) framework
   addresses the fragmentation problem with the following design
   goals:

   (a) Cross-protocol identity: A single identity model
       (<selector>._uasi.<domain>) usable across all Internet
       communication protocols.

   (b) Leverage existing standards: Profile RFC 9421 for HTTP and
       wrap DKIM for SMTP rather than inventing new signing formats
       for protocols that already have them.

   (c) Flexible trust: Support multiple trust tiers -- DNSSEC-
       verified, HTTPS-verified via .well-known, and DNS-unsigned --
       letting domain operators choose the trust level appropriate
       to their deployment.

   (d) DNS-anchored key discovery: Public keys published in DNS,
       leveraging the existing global namespace and DNSSEC [RFC4033]
       for integrity, with an HTTPS fallback for domains that do
       not deploy DNSSEC.

   (e) Incrementally deployable: UASI can coexist with and
       complement existing authentication mechanisms (DKIM, mTLS,
       HTTP Signatures).  It does not require flag-day adoption.

   (f) Default-on simplicity: The framework is designed to be simple
       enough that platform and library implementors can enable it
       by default, shifting the paradigm from opt-in authentication
       to opt-out.

   (g) Minimal new primitives: UASI reuses existing cryptographic
       algorithms, DNS record types, proven design patterns, and
       existing signing standards.  Novelty is in composition, not
       invention.

1.4.  Scope

   This document defines:

   o  The UASI identity model and namespace
   o  The trust model with three trust tiers
   o  Key publication via DNS and .well-known HTTPS endpoint
   o  The key discovery procedure
   o  Protocol adapters for SMTP, HTTP, MQTT, CoAP, and WebSocket
   o  The native signature format for protocols without existing
      signing standards
   o  The unified verification procedure
   o  The policy evaluation framework
   o  Migration guidance for environments with existing
      authentication mechanisms

   This document does NOT define:

   o  End-to-end encryption (UASI authenticates the sender; it does
      not encrypt the payload)
   o  Authorization or access control (UASI establishes identity;
      what you do with that identity is out of scope)
   o  Human identity (UASI authenticates domains and services, not
      individual humans)
   o  Constrained device symmetric authentication (deferred to a
      companion document, draft-uasi-constrained)


2.  Terminology

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL
   NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED",
   "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as
   described in BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when,
   they appear in all capitals, as shown here.

   Sender Domain:
      The DNS domain name that a sending entity claims as its
      identity.  This is the root of the UASI trust anchor.

   UASI Identity (UID):
      A structured identifier of the form <selector>._uasi.<domain>
      that uniquely identifies a sending entity or class of sending
      entities within a domain.

   Selector:
      A label that allows a domain to publish multiple UASI keys,
      enabling key rotation, per-service keys, and delegation to
      third parties.

   Protocol Adapter:
      A specification of how UASI identity, signing, and
      verification are mapped into a specific communication protocol.
      Adapters fall into two categories: profiling adapters (which
      profile an existing signing standard, e.g., RFC 9421 for HTTP)
      and native adapters (which define UASI-specific signing for
      protocols without an existing standard, e.g., MQTT).

   Trust Tier:
      The level of assurance associated with a key discovery result.
      UASI defines three trust tiers: dnssec-verified, https-
      verified, and dns-unsigned.  See Section 5.

   Assertion:
      A cryptographic signature over a canonical representation of
      the message or event, produced by the sender using the private
      key corresponding to a published UASI record.  For profiling
      adapters, the assertion is produced using the profiled
      standard's signing mechanism.

   Verifier:
      Any entity that receives a UASI-signed message and performs
      the unified verification procedure defined in Section 10.

   Policy Record:
      A DNS TXT record under _uasi-policy.<domain> that declares
      the sender domain's authentication policy -- analogous to
      DMARC policy for email, but generalized across protocols.

   Nonce:
      A unique, non-repeating value included in a signature to
      enable intra-protocol replay detection by the receiver.

   .well-known Endpoint:
      The HTTPS endpoint at /.well-known/uasi-keys/<selector>
      that serves UASI public keys as a fallback when DNS is
      unavailable.  See Section 7.3.


3.  Problem Statement

3.1.  The Fragmentation Problem

   The current landscape of sender authentication on the Internet
   can be characterized as a patchwork of protocol-specific
   solutions, each developed independently and each with its own
   identity model, key management approach, and policy semantics.

   Consider an organization (example.com) that operates:

   o  An email system requiring SPF, DKIM, and DMARC
   o  A REST API sending webhook callbacks
   o  An IoT fleet publishing MQTT telemetry
   o  A real-time service using WebSocket connections
   o  A microservice mesh using gRPC

   Today, this organization must configure and maintain five or more
   completely separate authentication systems.  Each has its own:

   o  Key generation and rotation procedures
   o  DNS records or certificate infrastructure
   o  Signature algorithm negotiation
   o  Verification libraries
   o  Failure handling and reporting

   This fragmentation imposes costs at every level:

   o  Operational complexity: Security teams must be expert in
      multiple unrelated authentication systems.

   o  Inconsistent coverage: Organizations typically secure their
      most visible protocol (email) and leave others unprotected.

   o  Reinvention: Every new protocol reinvents sender
      authentication, usually starting from shared secrets and
      only later (if ever) migrating to cryptographic identity.

   o  Audit difficulty: Answering "can we verify the sender of
      every inbound communication?" requires protocol-by-protocol
      analysis.

3.2.  The Adoption Problem

   Even within individual protocols, authentication adoption is
   slow.  DMARC, specified in 2015, still sees incomplete adoption
   a decade later.  The reasons are structural:

   o  Complexity: Configuring DKIM alone requires generating keys,
      publishing DNS records, configuring the MTA, and testing.
      Adding SPF and DMARC adds further steps.

   o  Fragility: Misconfigurations (e.g., SPF record exceeding
      the 10-lookup limit) silently degrade authentication.

   o  No universal default: Most software ships with
      authentication disabled; administrators must actively enable
      it.

   o  Receiver-side cost: Verifiers must implement protocol-
      specific verification logic for each mechanism.

   UASI addresses the adoption problem by providing a single
   identity and policy framework that, once integrated, works
   across all protocol adapters.  This dramatically reduces
   the per-protocol implementation cost and enables platform
   vendors to ship with UASI enabled by default.

3.3.  The IoT and Machine-to-Machine Gap

   The fastest-growing category of Internet communication -- machine-
   to-machine messaging via MQTT, CoAP, AMQP, and proprietary
   protocols -- has the weakest sender authentication.  Many IoT
   deployments rely on:

   o  Pre-shared keys (PSK) with no rotation mechanism
   o  Username/password over TLS with no domain-level identity
   o  No authentication at all on constrained networks

   The consequences include large-scale IoT botnets, unauthorized
   command injection, and telemetry spoofing.  UASI's lightweight
   native signing and DNS-based key distribution make it feasible
   to deploy on devices that perform DNS resolution.  For
   constrained devices that cannot perform public key cryptography,
   a companion document (draft-uasi-constrained) will define a
   symmetric authentication model.


4.  Architecture Overview

4.1.  Layered Design

   UASI is structured in five layers:

   +------------------------------------------------------------+
   |                     Policy Layer                            |
   |  (DNS _uasi-policy records: enforcement mode, reporting,    |
   |   minimum trust tier)                                       |
   +------------------------------------------------------------+
   |              Unified Verification Engine                    |
   |  (Protocol-independent: key discovery, trust tier           |
   |   assignment, result production)                            |
   +------------------------------------------------------------+
   |                Key Discovery Layer                          |
   |  (DNS _uasi records, .well-known/uasi-keys HTTPS fallback, |
   |   trust tier determination)                                 |
   +------------------------------------------------------------+
   |                Protocol Adapter Layer                       |
   |  (Per-protocol: HTTP profiles RFC 9421, SMTP wraps DKIM,   |
   |   MQTT/CoAP/WebSocket use native UASI signing)             |
   +------------------------------------------------------------+
   |                  Identity Layer                             |
   |  (<selector>._uasi.<domain> namespace, RFC 8552)            |
   +------------------------------------------------------------+

   This layering ensures that the core operations -- key discovery,
   trust tier assignment, verification result production, and policy
   evaluation -- are identical regardless of the transport protocol.
   Only the adapter layer differs, and for protocols with existing
   signing standards, the adapter is a thin profile rather than a
   new signing mechanism.

4.2.  Adapter Architecture

   The protocol adapter model is the central architectural
   contribution of this revision.  Each protocol gets an adapter
   that maps UASI identity and verification into that protocol's
   signing mechanism:

   Profiling Adapters:
      For protocols with existing signing standards, the adapter
      defines a UASI profile of that standard.  The signing
      mechanism is unchanged; UASI adds identity, key discovery,
      and policy.

      o  HTTP Adapter: profiles RFC 9421 (HTTP Message Signatures)
      o  SMTP Adapter: wraps DKIM [RFC6376] with alignment rules

   Native Adapters:
      For protocols without existing signing standards, the adapter
      defines a UASI-specific signing format and transport encoding.

      o  MQTT v5 Adapter: UASI-Signature in User Properties
      o  CoAP Adapter: UASI-Signature in a CoAP option
      o  WebSocket Adapter: UASI-Signature as binary prefix

4.3.  Data Flow

   The end-to-end UASI flow is:

   1. Key Publication (one-time setup per selector):
      The sender domain generates a key pair and publishes the
      public key as a DNS TXT record under
      <selector>._uasi.<domain>.  Optionally, the key is also
      served at .well-known/uasi-keys/<selector>.

   2. Policy Publication (one-time setup per domain):
      The sender domain publishes a policy record under
      _uasi-policy.<domain> declaring its authentication posture,
      including the minimum trust tier (mt= tag).

   3. Signing (per message/event):
      a. The sending application constructs the message payload
         per the transport protocol.
      b. The protocol adapter determines the signing mechanism:
         - For HTTP: create an RFC 9421 signature with UASI-
           profiled parameters.
         - For SMTP: rely on existing DKIM signing (no additional
           signature needed).
         - For MQTT/CoAP/WebSocket: compute a native UASI
           signature.
      c. The adapter injects the signature into the message via
         the protocol-appropriate carrier.

   4. Verification (per message/event):
      a. The protocol adapter extracts signature material from the
         received message.
      b. The adapter identifies the UASI identity (domain +
         selector) from the signature metadata.
      c. The unified verification engine discovers the key via
         the key discovery procedure (Section 7.4), recording
         the trust tier.
      d. The adapter verifies the signature using the protocol-
         appropriate mechanism.
      e. The verification engine checks replay (if nonce present)
         and expiry.
      f. The engine produces a structured result including status,
         trust tier, protocol, and identity.
      g. The engine evaluates the result against the domain's
         policy record, including the minimum trust tier.


5.  Trust Model

   UASI's trust model supports three tiers of key discovery
   assurance.  This graduated model allows UASI to provide
   meaningful security today (without universal DNSSEC deployment)
   while offering a clear upgrade path to stronger assurance.

5.1.  Trust Tiers

   dnssec-verified:
      The key was retrieved via a DNSSEC-validated DNS response.
      The verifier has cryptographic assurance that the key record
      is authentic and has not been tampered with.  This is the
      strongest trust tier.

      This tier provides security equivalent to DANE [RFC7671] --
      the DNS infrastructure itself vouches for the key material.

   https-verified:
      The key was retrieved via the .well-known/uasi-keys HTTPS
      endpoint (Section 7.3).  The verifier relies on the WebPKI
      (TLS certificate chain) to authenticate the domain serving
      the key.

      This tier provides security equivalent to any HTTPS-based
      key distribution mechanism.  It is weaker than dnssec-
      verified (it depends on the CA ecosystem) but provides
      meaningful, widely deployable authentication.

   dns-unsigned:
      The key was retrieved via an unsigned (non-DNSSEC) DNS
      response.  The verifier has no cryptographic assurance of
      the key's authenticity beyond the operational integrity of
      the DNS infrastructure.

      This tier provides security equivalent to how DKIM operates
      today for the vast majority of domains.  It is the weakest
      tier but is strictly better than no authentication.

5.2.  Trust Tier Assignment

   Trust tier assignment occurs during the key discovery procedure
   (Section 7.4) and is recorded in the verification result.  The
   assignment rules are:

   o  If the DNS response is DNSSEC-validated (secure): trust tier
      is dnssec-verified.

   o  If the DNS response is unsigned (insecure): trust tier is
      dns-unsigned.

   o  If the key was retrieved via .well-known HTTPS fallback:
      trust tier is https-verified.

   o  If the key was added locally for testing (via an
      implementation-specific mechanism such as add_key()): trust
      tier is local.  The local tier is for development and testing
      only; it MUST NOT satisfy any mt= policy requirement.

5.3.  Minimum Trust Policy

   Domain operators control the minimum acceptable trust tier via
   the mt= tag in their policy record (Section 11.1).  This puts
   the DNSSEC deployment question in the operator's hands:

   o  mt=dnssec: Only dnssec-verified keys satisfy policy.
      Security-conscious operators who deploy DNSSEC use this to
      prevent downgrade to weaker tiers.

   o  mt=https: Keys from dnssec-verified or https-verified
      sources satisfy policy.  This is the DEFAULT if mt= is not
      specified.

   o  mt=any: All trust tiers satisfy policy, including
      dns-unsigned.  This provides the lowest barrier to
      deployment.

   Verification results that do not meet the minimum trust tier
   are treated as policy failures (equivalent to fail for policy
   evaluation purposes, regardless of the cryptographic
   verification status).

5.4.  DNSSEC Validation States

   When a verifier performs DNSSEC validation on a UASI key record
   query, the response falls into one of three states, as defined
   in [RFC4033]:

   Secure:
      The response has a valid DNSSEC signature chain to a trust
      anchor.  Trust tier: dnssec-verified.

      Action: Use the key, proceed with verification.

   Insecure:
      The domain does not deploy DNSSEC, or there is a provable
      break in the chain of trust (e.g., an unsigned delegation).
      Trust tier: dns-unsigned.

      Action: Use the key.  The trust tier is recorded and
      evaluated against mt= policy.

   Bogus:
      The DNSSEC signature is present but fails validation.  This
      indicates either a misconfigured zone or an active attack
      (e.g., DNS cache poisoning, BGP hijacking, on-path key
      substitution).

      Action: The verifier MUST NOT use the key from the bogus
      response.  The verifier SHOULD fall back to the .well-known
      endpoint (Section 7.3).  If the .well-known endpoint is also
      unavailable, the result MUST be "temperror" (if the verifier
      believes the condition may be transient) or "permerror" (if
      the condition persists across multiple queries over a period
      of at least 1 hour).

      Verifiers SHOULD log bogus DNSSEC responses as security
      events.  Persistent bogus responses for a previously-secure
      domain are a strong indicator of an active attack and
      SHOULD trigger operator alerts.


6.  Identity Model

6.1.  UASI Identity (UID) Format

   A UASI Identity is a DNS name of the following form:

      <selector>._uasi.<domain>

   Where:

   o  <domain> is a fully qualified domain name (FQDN) under the
      control of the sending entity.

   o  <selector> is a DNS label chosen by the domain administrator.
      Selectors allow a domain to publish multiple keys for
      different purposes (e.g., per-service, per-environment,
      key rotation).

   o  "_uasi" is a fixed underscore-prefixed label that prevents
      collision with existing DNS names, per [RFC8552].

   Examples:

      mail._uasi.example.com       (email signing key)
      webhooks._uasi.example.com   (webhook signing key)
      iot-fleet1._uasi.example.com (IoT device fleet key)
      api-v2._uasi.example.com     (API signing key)

6.2.  Selector Semantics

   Selectors are opaque labels from the verifier's perspective.
   Their internal structure and naming convention are a matter of
   local policy for the sender domain.  However, the following
   conventions are RECOMMENDED:

   o  Use descriptive names that aid operational debugging
      (e.g., "mail-2026q1" rather than "k1").

   o  Include a rotation indicator (e.g., date or sequence number)
      to facilitate key rollover.

   o  Use separate selectors for separate services to enable
      independent key management and least-privilege signing.

6.3.  Delegation

   A domain MAY delegate UASI signing authority to a third party
   by publishing a CNAME record from the selector to a name
   controlled by the delegate:

      webhooks._uasi.example.com. CNAME webhooks._uasi.provider.net.

   This allows SaaS providers, CDNs, and managed service operators
   to sign on behalf of their customers without requiring access to
   the customer's DNS zone beyond the initial CNAME setup -- a
   pattern proven effective by DKIM delegation.

6.4.  Wildcard Identities

   Wildcard selectors (*._uasi.<domain>) are NOT RECOMMENDED due
   to the difficulty of revoking individual keys and the security
   implications of a single key compromise affecting all services.

6.5.  Selector Management at Scale

   Organizations operating large numbers of services (microservice
   architectures, IoT fleets, multi-tenant SaaS platforms) may
   accumulate hundreds or thousands of selectors.  This section
   provides operational guidance for managing selectors at scale.

6.5.1.  Selector Lifecycle

   Each selector SHOULD follow a defined lifecycle:

      Active:    Key is published, signing system uses this selector.
      Draining:  New key published under new selector; old selector
                 still resolves for in-flight message verification.
                 Duration: at minimum, the old record's TTL plus the
                 maximum expected message delivery delay.
      Retired:   DNS record removed.  The selector label MAY be
                 reused after a cooling-off period (RECOMMENDED:
                 30 days minimum) to avoid confusion in log analysis.

6.5.2.  Automation Patterns

   Manual selector management does not scale beyond a handful of
   services.  Implementations SHOULD support automated lifecycle
   management:

   o  Key generation and DNS publication via DNS API (e.g.,
      RFC 2136 dynamic updates, or provider-specific APIs).

   o  Selector naming conventions that encode creation date and
      service identity (e.g., "webhooks-20260315-001") to enable
      automated garbage collection of retired records.

   o  Monitoring that alerts on selectors approaching key
      expiration (the "x=" tag in the key record) or exceeding
      a maximum age threshold.

   Appendix C provides reference patterns for common deployment
   architectures.

6.5.3.  Shared Selectors

   Where individual per-device selectors are infeasible (e.g., a
   fleet of 10,000 IoT sensors), a shared fleet selector is
   acceptable.  The trade-off is that key compromise affects the
   entire fleet rather than a single device.  Organizations SHOULD
   segment fleets into groups of manageable size (RECOMMENDED:
   no more than 1,000 devices per selector) and use fleet-level
   selectors (e.g., "fleet-a", "fleet-b") to limit blast radius.


7.  Key Publication and Discovery

7.1.  DNS Key Record

   UASI public keys are published as DNS TXT records under the
   UASI Identity name.  The record value is a semicolon-separated
   list of tag=value pairs.

   Required tags:

      v=UASI1     ; Version (MUST be "UASI1" for this specification)
      k=<alg>     ; Key algorithm (see Section 7.5)
      p=<key>     ; Base64-encoded public key material

   Optional tags:

      t=<flags>   ; Flags (colon-separated):
                  ;   "s" = this key is for signing only (not
                  ;         encryption; default assumed)
                  ;   "y" = testing mode (verifiers SHOULD NOT
                  ;         reject based on this key)
      h=<hash>    ; Acceptable hash algorithms (colon-separated)
                  ;   Default: "sha256"
      x=<expiry>  ; Key expiration as Unix timestamp.  Verifiers
                  ;   MUST treat expired keys as invalid.
      n=<notes>   ; Human-readable notes (no semantic meaning)

   Example:

      mail._uasi.example.com. 3600 IN TXT (
         "v=UASI1; k=ed25519; "
         "p=MFkwEwYHKoZIzj0CAQYIKoZIzj0DAQcDQgAE...; "
         "x=1735689600; "
         "n=Email signing key 2026-Q1" )

7.1.1.  TTL Recommendations

   The TTL of UASI key records directly affects both the DNS query
   load generated by verifiers and the speed of key rotation.

   The following TTL values are RECOMMENDED:

      General use:          3600 seconds (1 hour)
      High-frequency APIs:  86400 seconds (24 hours)
      Key rotation period:  300 seconds (5 minutes), temporarily,
                            during the Draining phase of key
                            rotation (Section 6.5.1)

   Verifiers MUST respect the TTL of cached key records and MUST
   NOT query DNS more frequently than the TTL permits.  See
   Section 10.5 for verifier-side caching guidance.

7.2.  Policy Record

   Domain-level UASI policy is published as a DNS TXT record
   under _uasi-policy.<domain>.  The record value uses the same
   tag=value syntax.

   Required tags:

      v=UASI1     ; Version
      p=<policy>  ; Policy mode:
                  ;   "none"    = no assertion about UASI usage;
                  ;               informational only
                  ;   "report"  = UASI is deployed; receivers
                  ;               SHOULD verify and report but
                  ;               SHOULD NOT reject
                  ;   "enforce" = UASI is deployed; receivers
                  ;               SHOULD reject unsigned or
                  ;               failing messages

   Optional tags:

      rua=<uri>   ; Aggregate reporting URI
                  ;   (mailto: or https: endpoint)
      ruf=<uri>   ; Forensic/failure reporting URI
      pct=<int>   ; Percentage of messages to which policy applies
                  ;   (0-100; default 100).  Enables gradual rollout.
      sp=<policy> ; Subdomain policy (overrides p= for subdomains)
      b=<list>    ; Protocol bindings to which this policy applies
                  ;   (colon-separated; e.g., "smtp:http:mqtt")
                  ;   Default: all bindings
      rl=<level>  ; Report granularity level (Section 11.2.1):
                  ;   "d" = domain-only (most private)
                  ;   "s" = selector-level (default)
                  ;   "f" = full forensic detail
      mt=<tier>   ; Minimum trust tier for pass (Section 5.3):
                  ;   "dnssec" = only dnssec-verified
                  ;   "https"  = dnssec-verified or https-verified
                  ;              (DEFAULT)
                  ;   "any"    = all tiers accepted
      da=<mode>   ; DKIM alignment mode for the SMTP adapter
                  ;   (Section 9.2):
                  ;   "relaxed" = any DKIM selector under the
                  ;               domain satisfies UASI policy
                  ;               (DEFAULT)
                  ;   "strict"  = DKIM selector name must match
                  ;               UASI selector name

   Example:

      _uasi-policy.example.com. 3600 IN TXT (
         "v=UASI1; p=enforce; mt=https; da=relaxed; "
         "rua=mailto:uasi-reports@example.com; "
         "b=smtp:http" )

   This policy declares that example.com enforces UASI on SMTP
   and HTTP traffic, requires at minimum HTTPS-level trust for key
   discovery, uses relaxed DKIM alignment for SMTP, and sends
   aggregate reports to the specified mailbox.

   Per-protocol policy records:

   Operators who want different policy settings per protocol MAY
   publish per-protocol policy records using the format:

      _uasi-policy._<context>.<domain>

   For example:

      _uasi-policy._smtp.example.com. 3600 IN TXT (
         "v=UASI1; p=enforce; mt=any; da=strict" )

      _uasi-policy._http.example.com. 3600 IN TXT (
         "v=UASI1; p=enforce; mt=dnssec" )

   If a per-protocol policy record exists, it takes precedence
   over the base _uasi-policy record for that protocol.  If no
   per-protocol record exists, the base record applies.

7.3.  .well-known HTTPS Endpoint

   To provide key discovery when DNS is unavailable (e.g., due to
   resolver failures, network partitions, or deployment in
   environments where DNS is unreliable), UASI defines an HTTPS-
   based key retrieval endpoint.

   URL format:

      https://<domain>/.well-known/uasi-keys/<selector>

   Response format (JSON):

      {
        "v": "UASI1",
        "k": "ed25519",
        "p": "<base64-encoded-public-key>"
      }

   The response MAY include additional fields corresponding to the
   optional tags defined in Section 7.1 (e.g., "x" for expiry,
   "t" for flags, "n" for notes).

   Requirements:

   o  The endpoint MUST be served over HTTPS with a valid TLS
      certificate for <domain>.

   o  The endpoint SHOULD set Cache-Control headers.  RECOMMENDED:
      max-age=3600.

   o  The endpoint MUST return 404 Not Found if the selector does
      not exist.

   o  The endpoint MUST return Content-Type: application/json.

   o  Implementations SHOULD support HTTP conditional requests
      (ETag / If-None-Match) for efficient cache revalidation.

   Registration:

   The ".well-known" URI suffix "uasi-keys" is registered per
   [RFC8615].  See Section 14.7.

7.4.  Key Discovery Procedure

   DNS is the canonical source for UASI key material.  The
   .well-known HTTPS endpoint is a fallback, not a co-equal path.
   The discovery procedure is:

   Step 1.  Query DNS for <selector>._uasi.<domain> TXT record.

   Step 2.  If DNS returns a DNSSEC-validated (secure) response:
            use the key, set trust_tier to "dnssec-verified".
            Do NOT consult .well-known.  STOP.

   Step 3.  If DNS returns an unsigned (insecure, non-DNSSEC)
            response with a valid UASI key record: use the key,
            set trust_tier to "dns-unsigned".  Do NOT consult
            .well-known.  STOP.

            Rationale: DNS and .well-known returning different
            keys would create ambiguity.  DNS wins as the
            canonical source.

   Step 4.  If DNS returns a bogus DNSSEC response, or if DNS
            fails entirely (SERVFAIL, timeout, NXDOMAIN): fall
            back to .well-known/uasi-keys/<selector> over HTTPS.
            If the HTTPS endpoint returns a valid key, set
            trust_tier to "https-verified".  STOP.

   Step 5.  If both DNS and .well-known fail: return result
            "temperror" (for transient DNS failures such as
            SERVFAIL or timeout) or "permerror" (for NXDOMAIN
            combined with HTTP 404).

   Conflict resolution:

   DNS is authoritative.  .well-known is only consulted when DNS
   is unavailable.  This prevents downgrade attacks where an
   adversary blocks DNS to force verifiers to a potentially
   compromised web server.  See Section 13.2 for a detailed
   analysis of this attack.

7.5.  Supported Algorithms

   UASI implementations MUST support the following algorithms:

      Ed25519  [RFC8032]  -- REQUIRED (mandatory to implement)
      ECDSA P-256 (ES256) -- RECOMMENDED

   Ed25519 is designated as the mandatory-to-implement algorithm
   due to its small key size (32 bytes public key, 64 bytes
   signature -- both suitable for DNS TXT records and constrained
   protocol fields), fast verification, and resistance to
   implementation pitfalls.

   RSA (RS256) is intentionally deferred from this version of the
   specification.  While RSA has broad deployment, its 256-byte
   signatures conflict with the compact format goals for CoAP and
   MQTT native adapters, and adding it increases verifier
   complexity without a demonstrated interoperability requirement.
   RSA support may be added in a future revision if demand
   warrants.

   Implementations MUST NOT support curves below 256 bits for
   ECDSA.

7.6.  Key Rotation

   Key rotation is accomplished by:

   1. Publishing a new key under a new selector.
   2. Configuring the signing system to use the new selector.
   3. Allowing sufficient time for DNS caches to expire the old
      key record (at minimum, the old record's TTL plus the
      maximum expected message delivery delay for the protocol).
   4. Removing the old key record.
   5. If using .well-known, updating the HTTPS endpoint for both
      the old selector (remove) and new selector (add)
      simultaneously with the DNS changes.

   During the transition period, both keys are valid, and verifiers
   will accept signatures from either.  The selector mechanism
   ensures that each signature unambiguously identifies which key
   to use, avoiding the ambiguity problems that arise with key
   rollover in other systems.

   Key re-fetch on failure:

   Verifiers that have a cached key which no longer validates a
   signature SHOULD re-fetch the key (bypassing cache) exactly
   once before returning "fail".  This handles the case where a
   key has been rotated but the verifier's cache has not yet
   expired.  This mirrors DKIM's key rotation behavior.

   For automated rotation guidance, see Section 6.5.


8.  Signature Format (Native Adapters)

   This section defines the signature format used by native
   adapters (MQTT, CoAP, WebSocket).  Profiling adapters (HTTP,
   SMTP) use their respective profiled standard's signature
   format; see Section 9.

8.1.  UASI-Signature Field

   The UASI-Signature field is the carrier for UASI assertions
   in native adapters.  Its syntax is a semicolon-separated list
   of tag=value pairs, conceptually similar to a DKIM-Signature
   header but generalized for any protocol.

   Required tags:

      v=1          ; Signature version
      a=<alg>      ; Signing algorithm (e.g., "ed25519-sha256")
      d=<domain>   ; Sender domain (the "d=" domain)
      s=<selector> ; Selector
      t=<ts>       ; Signature timestamp (Unix seconds)
      bh=<hash>    ; Base64-encoded hash of the canonicalized
                   ; message body/payload
      b=<sig>      ; Base64-encoded signature value
      c=<canon>    ; Canonicalization method (Section 8.2)
      z=<context>  ; Protocol context tag (e.g., "mqtt5", "coap",
                   ;   "websocket").  REQUIRED.  Prevents cross-
                   ;   protocol replay.  (Section 8.4)

   Optional tags:

      x=<expiry>   ; Signature expiration (Unix seconds)
      h=<fields>   ; Colon-separated list of signed header/metadata
                   ; field names (protocol-binding specific)
      q=<method>   ; Query method for key retrieval
                   ;   "dns/txt" (default)
                   ;   "dns/txt+https/wk" (DNS with .well-known
                   ;   fallback; see Section 7.4)
      l=<length>   ; Body length limit (number of octets signed)
      n=<nonce>    ; Unique nonce for intra-protocol replay
                   ;   detection (Section 8.5).  RECOMMENDED for
                   ;   WebSocket per-message signing.

   Example (line breaks for display; actual value is continuous):

      v=1; a=ed25519-sha256; d=sensor.example.com; s=fleet-a;
      t=1710500000; x=1710503600; z=mqtt5;
      h=@topic:@qos:@content-type;
      bh=base64encodedHash==;
      b=base64encodedSignature==;
      c=simple

   Note: The "z=" tag is REQUIRED for native adapters.  For the
   HTTP adapter, cross-protocol binding is achieved via the "tag"
   parameter in RFC 9421's Signature-Input (set to "uasi").  For
   the SMTP adapter, cross-protocol replay prevention is inherent
   in DKIM's structural binding to email headers.

8.2.  Canonicalization

   To ensure that signatures survive transport-layer
   transformations (e.g., header reordering, whitespace
   normalization), UASI defines three canonicalization modes:

   Simple:
      The signable content is used as-is, with no normalization.
      This mode is suitable for binary protocols (MQTT, CoAP)
      where message content is unlikely to be transformed in
      transit.

   Relaxed:
      o  Header/metadata field names are lowercased.
      o  Header/metadata field values have leading and trailing
         whitespace removed, and internal sequences of whitespace
         collapsed to a single space.
      o  Empty lines at the end of the body are removed.
      o  Line endings are normalized to CRLF.

      This mode is applicable to native adapters that operate
      over text-based transports.

   Strict:
      o  All rules of "relaxed" mode apply.
      o  Additionally, ONLY fields listed in "h=" are considered
         part of the signing input.  If a field listed in "h=" is
         absent from the message, it is included as an empty value
         (field_name ":" SP "" CRLF).  This prevents an attacker
         from adding a signed field that wasn't present at signing
         time.
      o  The body hash covers the EXACT byte sequence of the body
         after transfer-encoding removal, with no further
         normalization.

      This mode is suitable for native adapters where intermediary
      modification is possible (e.g., WebSocket proxies).

   The choice of canonicalization mode is declared in the "c=" tag
   of the UASI-Signature field.

8.2.1.  Canonicalization Selection Guidance

   The following table summarizes the RECOMMENDED canonicalization
   mode for each native adapter:

      +------------+-------------+----------------------------------+
      | Protocol   | RECOMMENDED | Rationale                        |
      +------------+-------------+----------------------------------+
      | MQTT v5    | simple      | Brokers preserve payload         |
      | CoAP       | simple      | No intermediary modification     |
      | WebSocket  | strict      | Proxy traversal possible         |
      +------------+-------------+----------------------------------+

   Note: The HTTP and SMTP adapters use their profiled standard's
   canonicalization (RFC 9421's component coverage for HTTP; DKIM's
   canonicalization for SMTP) rather than the modes defined here.

8.3.  Canonical Signing Input (Native Adapters)

   The signing input for native adapters is constructed as follows:

   1. For each field name listed in "h=", in the order listed:
      a. Apply canonicalization to the field name and value.
      b. If the field is absent from the message and c=strict,
         use an empty value.
      c. Concatenate: canonicalized_name ":" SP canonicalized_value
         CRLF

   2. Concatenate the protocol context: "z:" SP context_value CRLF

   3. If a nonce is present: "n:" SP nonce_value CRLF

   4. Concatenate the body hash: "bh:" SP body_hash_value CRLF

   5. Concatenate the UASI-Signature field value itself, with the
      "b=" tag value empty (i.e., "b=;"), canonicalized.

   6. The signature is computed over the concatenation from steps
      1-5.

   This construction ensures that both selected metadata fields
   and the message body are covered, and that the signature is
   self-referential (signing its own parameters prevents
   parameter substitution attacks).

8.4.  Preventing Cross-Protocol Replay

   Cross-protocol replay prevention is achieved differently for
   each adapter type:

   Native adapters (MQTT, CoAP, WebSocket):
      The "z=" (protocol context) tag is REQUIRED and is always
      included in the signing input.  This ensures that a valid
      UASI signature for an MQTT message cannot be replayed as
      a CoAP message, even if the payload is identical.  Verifiers
      MUST reject signatures where the "z=" value does not match
      the protocol over which the message was received.

   HTTP adapter (RFC 9421 profile):
      The "tag" parameter in RFC 9421's Signature-Input is set to
      "uasi".  Since the tag is included in the signature base
      (per RFC 9421 Section 2.5), it provides equivalent cross-
      protocol binding.

   SMTP adapter (DKIM wrapper):
      Cross-protocol replay prevention is inherent.  A DKIM
      signature is structurally bound to email headers (From, To,
      Subject, etc.) and cannot be transplanted into an HTTP or
      MQTT context.

8.5.  Nonce-Based Intra-Protocol Replay Detection

   The cross-protocol replay mechanisms described in Section 8.4
   do not prevent intra-protocol replay -- re-sending an identical,
   validly signed message to the same receiver within the same
   protocol.

   Replay protection is fundamentally a stateful problem: the
   receiver must remember what it has already seen.  UASI provides
   an optional "n=" (nonce) tag in native adapter signatures to
   support this use case without mandating statefulness for all
   deployments.

   For the HTTP adapter, the "nonce" parameter defined in
   RFC 9421 Signature-Input provides equivalent functionality.

8.5.1.  Nonce Generation

   When included, the "n=" value MUST be unique per signature.
   Acceptable generation strategies include:

   o  UUIDv4 (RECOMMENDED for general use)
   o  UUIDv7 or ULID (RECOMMENDED when time-ordering aids
      debugging)
   o  Cryptographically random hex string (minimum 128 bits)
   o  Monotonically increasing counter per selector (acceptable
      for single-signer deployments)

   The nonce value MUST NOT exceed 128 characters and MUST consist
   only of alphanumeric characters and hyphens.

8.5.2.  Nonce Verification

   When a signature contains a nonce (native adapter "n=" or
   HTTP adapter "nonce" parameter), verifiers SHOULD maintain a
   nonce cache indexed by (domain, selector, nonce) tuples:

   1. After successful signature verification, check whether the
      (domain, selector, nonce) tuple exists in the cache.
   2. If it exists, return result = "fail" (replay detected).
   3. If it does not exist, add the tuple to the cache with a
      TTL equal to the signature's validity window (x= minus t=,
      or a configured maximum if x= is absent).

   The nonce cache MAY be bounded by size.  When the cache is full,
   the oldest entries SHOULD be evicted.  Eviction of unexpired
   entries weakens replay protection; operators should size the
   cache according to their traffic volume and risk tolerance.

8.5.2.1.  Cache Saturation and Forced Eviction

   An attacker who can generate valid signed messages (e.g., a
   compromised sender, or a legitimate sender whose messages are
   observed and collected) can flood a verifier with messages
   carrying unique nonces, forcing the nonce cache to evict
   legitimate entries.  Once a legitimate nonce is evicted, the
   attacker can replay the corresponding message.

   This is a fundamental trade-off: unbounded caches are vulnerable
   to memory exhaustion; bounded caches are vulnerable to forced
   eviction.  Verifiers MUST choose a strategy appropriate to their
   threat model:

   Fail-Closed (High Security):

      When the nonce cache reaches its configured maximum size,
      the verifier rejects all new messages carrying nonces
      (result = "temperror") until existing entries expire
      naturally.  This prevents forced-eviction replays but
      introduces a denial-of-service risk: an attacker can cause
      legitimate traffic to be rejected by filling the cache.

      This strategy is RECOMMENDED for:
      o  Financial transaction webhooks
      o  Any endpoint where replay has irreversible consequences

   Fail-Open (High Availability):

      When the nonce cache reaches its configured maximum size,
      the verifier evicts the oldest unexpired entries to make
      room.  The verifier SHOULD emit a security alert (log entry,
      monitoring event) indicating that the replay protection
      window has been compromised by volume.

      This strategy is RECOMMENDED for:
      o  General-purpose webhook receivers
      o  Endpoints where occasional replay is tolerable and
         availability is prioritized

   Implementation guidance:

   o  Verifiers SHOULD use a TTL-aware cache where entries expire
      automatically based on the signature validity window
      (x= minus t=).  This minimizes the need for forced eviction
      under normal traffic patterns.

   o  For high-volume endpoints, a distributed, TTL-aware cache
      shared across multiple verifier instances reduces per-
      instance memory pressure and provides consistent nonce
      checking across a load-balanced deployment.

   o  Verifiers SHOULD monitor cache utilization and alert when
      utilization exceeds 80% of the configured maximum, as this
      may indicate either a traffic spike or an eviction attack.

   o  The configured maximum cache size SHOULD be at least 10x
      the expected peak message rate multiplied by the maximum
      signature validity window.  For example, an endpoint
      receiving 1,000 messages/second with a 300-second validity
      window should configure a cache of at least 3,000,000
      entries.

8.5.3.  When to Use Nonces

   The "n=" tag or equivalent mechanism is RECOMMENDED for:
   o  HTTP webhook delivery (where replay can trigger duplicate
      side effects)
   o  WebSocket per-message signing
   o  Any protocol where the receiver is stateful and replay has
      business-logic consequences

   The nonce mechanism is NOT RECOMMENDED for:
   o  SMTP (email has its own Message-ID-based deduplication)
   o  IoT telemetry (stateless, idempotent sensor readings)
   o  High-frequency, low-latency streams where nonce cache
      overhead is prohibitive

   Signers MUST NOT assume that receivers enforce nonce uniqueness.
   The nonce mechanism is cooperative: it enables replay detection
   for receivers that implement it, but does not guarantee it.


9.  Protocol Adapters

   This section defines the five protocol adapters.  Each adapter
   specifies how UASI identity, signing, and verification are
   mapped into a specific communication protocol.

9.1.  HTTP Adapter -- Profiles RFC 9421

   The HTTP adapter does not define a new signing format.  Instead,
   it defines a profile of HTTP Message Signatures [RFC9421] with
   UASI-specific parameters for key discovery and identity.

9.1.1.  Profile Parameters

   The following RFC 9421 parameters are constrained by the UASI
   HTTP profile:

   keyid:
      The "keyid" parameter in the Signature-Input field MUST be
      set to the full UASI Identity:

         <selector>._uasi.<domain>

      Example: "webhooks._uasi.sender.example.com"

      The verifier parses the selector and domain from this string
      by splitting on "._uasi." -- the portion before "._uasi." is
      the selector, and the portion after is the domain.

   alg:
      The "alg" parameter MUST be set to "ed25519" or another
      algorithm registered in the UASI algorithm registry
      (Section 14.3).

   tag:
      The "tag" parameter MUST be set to "uasi".  This allows
      co-existence with non-UASI HTTP Message Signatures on the
      same message.  Verifiers looking for UASI signatures MUST
      filter for signatures with tag="uasi".

   created:
      The "created" parameter SHOULD be included.  It corresponds
      to the signature timestamp.

   expires:
      The "expires" parameter SHOULD be included for webhook use
      cases.  RECOMMENDED: 300 seconds after "created".

   nonce:
      The "nonce" parameter SHOULD be included for webhook use
      cases to enable intra-protocol replay detection.

9.1.2.  Required Covered Components

   For webhook and API callback use cases, the following covered
   components are REQUIRED in the UASI HTTP profile:

      @method
      @authority
      @path
      content-type (when body is present)
      content-digest (when body is present; see Section 9.1.3)

   Additional application-specific headers (e.g., x-webhook-event,
   x-request-id) MAY be included.

   MUST NOT sign list:

   The following HTTP headers MUST NOT be included in covered
   components because they are routinely modified by intermediaries:

      content-length, transfer-encoding, via, x-forwarded-for,
      x-forwarded-proto, x-real-ip, connection, keep-alive,
      proxy-authorization, te, trailer

9.1.3.  Content-Digest Requirement

   When an HTTP request has a body, the Content-Digest header
   [RFC9530] MUST be present and MUST be included in the covered
   components.  This provides body integrity protection within the
   RFC 9421 framework.

   For bodyless requests (e.g., GET callbacks), Content-Digest
   is OPTIONAL and MAY be omitted from covered components.

9.1.4.  Example HTTP Request

   POST /webhook/orders HTTP/1.1
   Host: receiver.example.org
   Content-Type: application/json
   Content-Digest: sha-256=:X48E9qOokqqrvdts8nOJRJN3OWDUoyWxBf7kbu9DBPE=:
   X-Webhook-Event: order.completed
   X-Request-Id: req-789
   Signature-Input: uasi-sig=("@method" "@authority" "@path"
     "content-type" "content-digest" "x-webhook-event"
     "x-request-id");keyid="webhooks._uasi.sender.example.com";
     alg="ed25519";tag="uasi";created=1710500000;
     expires=1710500300;nonce="550e8400-e29b-41d4"
   Signature: uasi-sig=:BASE64SIGNATUREVALUE=:

   {"order_id": "12345", "status": "shipped"}

   Key resolution: The verifier extracts keyid=
   "webhooks._uasi.sender.example.com", parses selector=
   "webhooks" and domain="sender.example.com", then follows the
   key discovery procedure (Section 7.4).

9.1.5.  Intermediary Guidance

   HTTP intermediaries (reverse proxies, CDNs, WAFs, API gateways,
   load balancers) SHOULD preserve the Signature and Signature-Input
   headers without modification.

   Intermediaries MUST NOT:

   o  Remove or modify the Signature or Signature-Input headers.
   o  Modify the body content without being aware that doing so
      will invalidate the Content-Digest and therefore the
      signature.

   Intermediaries MAY:

   o  Add new headers (these will not be in the covered components
      and therefore will not affect signature verification).
   o  Re-sign the message with their own UASI signature if they
      are an authorized intermediary (adding a second signature
      label to Signature-Input and Signature).

   When deploying UASI in environments with intermediaries, senders
   SHOULD test signature survival through their actual delivery
   path during the "monitor" phase (Section 12.2) before
   progressing to enforcement.

   If an intermediary must modify the body (e.g., content
   transformation, compression), it SHOULD either:

   (a) Strip the original Signature/Signature-Input and re-sign
       with its own identity, or
   (b) Verify the original signature before modification and
       record the verification result in a trace header
       (e.g., "UASI-Authentication-Results").

9.1.6.  Volatile Header Parameters

   Certain HTTP headers carry parameters that intermediaries
   frequently add, remove, or normalize.  The most common case is
   Content-Type, where a sender transmits:

      Content-Type: application/json

   and an intermediary rewrites it to:

      Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8

   This modification changes the byte representation of the header
   value and will cause a signature failure if Content-Type is
   included in the covered components.

   Signer guidance:

   Senders who include Content-Type (or any parameterized header)
   in the covered components MUST pre-normalize the value before
   signing.  Specifically:

   o  Include all parameters that the sender intends to be present.
      For example, sign "application/json; charset=utf-8" rather
      than "application/json".

   o  Lowercase the media type and all parameter names (per
      RFC 2045, media types are case-insensitive).

   o  Order parameters consistently (RECOMMENDED: alphabetical
      by parameter name).

   Headers with known volatility:

   In addition to Content-Type, the following headers are known
   to be subject to parameter modification by intermediaries and
   SHOULD be treated with the same caution:

      Accept, Accept-Encoding, Accept-Language, Cache-Control

   Senders SHOULD prefer signing application-specific headers
   (e.g., X-Webhook-Event, X-Request-Id) that intermediaries
   have no reason to modify.

9.2.  SMTP Adapter -- Wraps DKIM

   The SMTP adapter does not replace DKIM signing or define a new
   email signature format.  Instead, it provides alignment rules
   between UASI identity and DKIM [RFC6376] selectors, mapping
   DKIM verification results into UASI's unified result codes.
   This gives SMTP the same policy and reporting framework as
   other protocols without requiring a second signature.

9.2.1.  DKIM Alignment Model

   A domain that deploys UASI for SMTP publishes a UASI policy
   record stating that DKIM signatures from its _domainkey
   selectors satisfy UASI verification for the smtp context.

   The alignment between DKIM selectors and UASI identity is
   controlled by the "da=" (DKIM alignment) tag in the UASI
   policy record:

   da=relaxed (DEFAULT):
      Any DKIM signature where the d= domain matches the UASI
      policy domain (or is a subdomain of it) satisfies UASI
      alignment.  The DKIM selector name is not constrained.

      Example: A DKIM signature with d=example.com and
      s=google-2026 satisfies UASI policy for example.com under
      relaxed alignment.

   da=strict:
      The DKIM selector name (s=) must match the UASI selector
      name for the binding to succeed.  This provides tighter
      coupling between UASI and DKIM identities.

      Example: A DKIM signature with d=example.com and
      s=mail-2026q1 satisfies UASI policy only if the UASI
      selector for the smtp binding is also mail-2026q1.

9.2.2.  Verification Flow

   The SMTP adapter verification flow is:

   1. The receiving MTA performs standard DKIM verification per
      [RFC6376].

   2. The UASI verification engine queries the UASI policy record
      for the DKIM d= domain.

   3. If the UASI policy specifies the smtp protocol (via b= tag
      or default "all"), the engine evaluates DKIM alignment:
      a. Under da=relaxed: any passing DKIM signature with a
         matching d= domain satisfies alignment.
      b. Under da=strict: the DKIM s= must match the UASI selector.

   4. The DKIM verification result is mapped to a UASI result:
      - DKIM pass + alignment pass -> UASI pass
      - DKIM pass + alignment fail -> UASI fail
      - DKIM fail -> UASI fail
      - DKIM none (no signature) -> UASI none
      - DKIM temperror -> UASI temperror
      - DKIM permerror -> UASI permerror

   5. Trust tier is assigned based on the DKIM _domainkey DNS
      lookup:
      - DNSSEC-validated response -> dnssec-verified
      - Unsigned response -> dns-unsigned

      Note: The https-verified tier does not apply to the SMTP
      adapter.  There is no .well-known fallback for DKIM keys,
      as that would constitute a change to DKIM, which is out of
      scope.

   6. The structured verification result is produced and fed into
      the unified policy engine (Section 11).

9.2.3.  Cross-Protocol Replay

   The SMTP adapter does not require a "z=" protocol context tag.
   DKIM signatures are structurally bound to email headers (From,
   To, Subject, Date, etc.) and cannot be transplanted into an
   HTTP, MQTT, or other protocol context.  Cross-protocol replay
   prevention is therefore inherent in the DKIM signature format.

9.2.4.  Interaction with DMARC

   UASI's SMTP adapter is complementary to DMARC [RFC7489].  A
   domain MAY deploy both DMARC and UASI policy simultaneously.

   o  DMARC evaluates alignment between DKIM/SPF identifiers and
      the RFC 5322 From: domain.
   o  UASI evaluates DKIM verification results against UASI policy
      (including trust tier requirements).

   The two policies are independent.  A message may pass DMARC but
   fail UASI policy (e.g., if mt=dnssec and the DKIM key lookup
   was not DNSSEC-validated), or vice versa.

9.2.5.  Example

   Domain configuration:

      _uasi-policy.example.com. 3600 IN TXT (
         "v=UASI1; p=enforce; da=relaxed; mt=any; "
         "rua=mailto:uasi@example.com" )

   Email flow:

      DKIM-Signature: v=1; a=rsa-sha256; d=example.com;
         s=google-2026; ... [standard DKIM signature]
      From: ceo@example.com
      To: board@example.org
      Subject: Q1 Results

   UASI evaluation:
   - DKIM d=example.com matches UASI policy domain
   - da=relaxed: DKIM s=google-2026 is accepted (any selector)
   - DKIM verification: pass
   - Trust tier: dns-unsigned (DKIM key lookup not DNSSEC-signed)
   - mt=any: dns-unsigned is accepted
   - UASI result: pass, trust_tier=dns-unsigned, protocol=smtp,
     identity=google-2026._uasi.example.com

9.3.  MQTT v5 Adapter -- UASI Native Signing

   Context tag: z=mqtt5

   No existing message-level signing standard exists for MQTT.
   UASI defines native signing for MQTT v5.

9.3.1.  Placement

   The UASI-Signature is placed as an MQTT v5 User Property with
   the name "UASI-Signature" on the PUBLISH packet.

9.3.2.  Signable Fields

   The following MQTT properties are signable using symbolic names:

      @topic          -- the PUBLISH topic name
      @qos            -- the QoS level
      @retain         -- the retain flag (0 or 1)
      @content-type   -- the Content Type property (if present)
      @response-topic -- the Response Topic property (if present)
      @correlation-data -- the Correlation Data property
                          (base64-encoded, if present)

   Additional User Properties MAY be included by name.

9.3.3.  Canonicalization

   "simple" is RECOMMENDED.  MQTT brokers generally do not modify
   packet contents.

9.3.4.  Body

   The body hash covers the Application Message (payload) of the
   PUBLISH packet.

9.3.5.  Example

   MQTT v5 PUBLISH User Properties:

      UASI-Signature: v=1; a=ed25519-sha256;
         d=sensor-fleet.example.com; s=iot-fleet1;
         t=1710500000; z=mqtt5; c=simple;
         h=@topic:@qos:@content-type;
         bh=payloadHash==;
         b=SIGVALUEHERE==

9.4.  CoAP Adapter -- UASI Native Signing

   Context tag: z=coap

   No existing message-level signing standard exists for CoAP.
   UASI defines native signing for CoAP.

9.4.1.  Placement

   The UASI-Signature is placed as a CoAP Option.  A new option
   number is requested from IANA (see Section 14).

9.4.2.  Signable Fields

   The following CoAP fields are signable:

      @uri-path       -- the Uri-Path option value(s)
      @uri-host       -- the Uri-Host option value
      @content-format -- the Content-Format option value

9.4.3.  Canonicalization

   "simple" is RECOMMENDED.

9.4.4.  Body

   The body hash covers the CoAP payload.

9.4.5.  Compact Encoding

   CoAP's constrained environment makes compact encoding
   important.  The UASI-Signature CoAP option uses a compact
   binary encoding rather than the text-based tag=value format:

   Byte layout:

      +--------+--------+--------+--------+
      | Flags  | Sel Len| Domain | ...
      | (1B)   | (1B)   | Len(1B)| Selector (variable)
      +--------+--------+--------+--------+
      | Domain (variable)       | Timestamp (4B, big-endian)
      +--------+--------+--------+--------+
      | Expiry (4B, optional)   | Body Hash (32B, SHA-256)
      +--------+--------+--------+--------+
      | Signature (64B, Ed25519)          |
      +--------+--------+--------+--------+

   The Flags byte encodes:
      Bits 0-1: Algorithm (00=ed25519, 01=es256)
      Bits 2-3: Canonicalization (00=simple, 01=relaxed, 10=strict)
      Bit 4:    Expiry present (1=yes)
      Bit 5:    Nonce present (1=yes)
      Bits 6-7: Reserved

   This compact encoding produces a UASI-Signature option of
   approximately 110-140 bytes for Ed25519, compared to 200+
   bytes for the text format.

9.5.  WebSocket Adapter -- UASI Native Signing

   Context tag: z=websocket

9.5.1.  Handshake Authentication

   UASI authentication for the WebSocket opening handshake uses
   the HTTP adapter (Section 9.1) applied to the HTTP Upgrade
   request.  This authenticates the initial connection
   establishment.

9.5.2.  Per-Message Signing

   For per-message authentication after the handshake, the UASI-
   Signature is carried as a binary prefix in each WebSocket
   message:

      +------------------+-------------------+------------------+
      | Sig Length (2B)  | UASI-Signature    | Payload          |
      | big-endian       | (variable length) | (remaining bytes)|
      +------------------+-------------------+------------------+

   The first 2 bytes encode the length of the UASI-Signature in
   bytes (big-endian unsigned 16-bit integer).  The UASI-Signature
   follows in its text-based tag=value format (as defined in
   Section 8.1).  The remaining bytes are the application payload.

   This binary prefix format:
   o  Works for both text and binary WebSocket frames
   o  Is more compact than a JSON envelope
   o  Is unambiguous to parse (fixed-length prefix followed by
      known-length signature followed by payload)

   The body hash (bh=) covers the payload bytes (everything after
   the signature).

9.5.3.  Signable Fields

      @origin    -- the WebSocket origin
      @protocol  -- the negotiated subprotocol

9.5.4.  Canonicalization

   "simple" is RECOMMENDED for per-message signing.  The binary
   prefix format preserves byte-exact payload integrity.

9.5.5.  Nonce

   The "n=" tag is RECOMMENDED for WebSocket per-message signing.
   WebSocket connections are long-lived, and per-message replay
   detection provides defense against an observer who captures
   and re-injects messages.

9.6.  Defining New Adapters

   New protocol adapters can be defined in separate documents by
   specifying:

   1. Whether the adapter is a profiling adapter (profiles an
      existing signing standard) or a native adapter (defines
      UASI-specific signing).

   2. For profiling adapters:
      a. Which signing standard is profiled.
      b. How the UASI identity maps to the profiled standard's
         key identifier.
      c. How cross-protocol replay is prevented (equivalent to
         the "tag" parameter or structural binding).

   3. For native adapters:
      a. The value of the "z=" context tag (registered with IANA).
      b. The placement of the UASI-Signature field.
      c. The set of signable protocol-specific fields.
      d. Any protocol-specific canonicalization rules.
      e. How the body/payload hash input is determined.

   4. Whether nonce-based replay detection is recommended.

   5. How trust tier is determined for key discovery (e.g.,
      whether .well-known fallback is applicable).

   6. Intermediary behavior requirements (if applicable).


10.  Unified Verification Procedure

10.1.  Overview

   Regardless of protocol, every UASI verification follows the
   same abstract flow, producing the same structured result.
   The adapter handles protocol-specific extraction and signature
   verification; the unified engine handles key discovery, trust
   tier assignment, replay checking, expiry, and result production.

10.2.  Step-by-Step Procedure

   1. EXTRACT signature material from the received message using
      the appropriate protocol adapter:
      - HTTP: extract Signature and Signature-Input with tag="uasi"
      - SMTP: extract DKIM verification result
      - MQTT: extract UASI-Signature User Property
      - CoAP: extract UASI-Signature option
      - WebSocket: extract binary prefix or handshake signature

   2. IDENTIFY the UASI identity (domain + selector) from the
      extracted signature material:
      - HTTP: parse keyid from Signature-Input
      - SMTP: use DKIM d= domain with UASI alignment rules
      - Native adapters: parse d= and s= tags

   3. DISCOVER KEY via the key discovery procedure (Section 7.4):
      a. Query DNS for <selector>._uasi.<domain>.
      b. Apply the discovery procedure steps 1-5.
      c. Record the trust_tier.
      d. For the SMTP adapter, the key is the DKIM _domainkey
         record (already retrieved during DKIM verification).
         Trust tier is assigned based on whether that DNS
         response was DNSSEC-validated.

   4. VERIFY SIGNATURE using the adapter-specific mechanism:
      - HTTP: perform RFC 9421 signature verification
      - SMTP: use the DKIM verification result (already computed)
      - Native adapters: verify Ed25519/ES256 signature per
        Section 8.3

   5. CHECK REPLAY:
      - If a nonce is present (native adapter "n=" tag or HTTP
        adapter "nonce" parameter), check the nonce cache.
      - If the nonce has been seen before, return status = "fail"
        (replay detected).
      - If the nonce is fresh, add it to the cache.

   6. CHECK EXPIRY:
      - If an expiry is present (native adapter "x=" tag or HTTP
        adapter "expires" parameter) and the current time exceeds
        the expiry, return status = "fail" (expired signature).

   7. PRODUCE RESULT -- a structured result object:

      {
        "status": "pass" | "fail" | "none" | "temperror" |
                  "permerror",
        "trust_tier": "dnssec-verified" | "https-verified" |
                      "dns-unsigned" | "local",
        "protocol": "http" | "smtp" | "mqtt5" | "coap" |
                    "websocket",
        "identity": "<selector>._uasi.<domain>"
      }

   The verification result is the same data structure regardless
   of which adapter was used.  One policy engine, one reporting
   pipeline, five protocols.

10.3.  Result Codes

   The verification procedure produces one of the following results:

      pass      -- Signature verified successfully.
      fail      -- Signature verification failed (invalid signature,
                  expired, body hash mismatch, replay detected,
                  or DKIM alignment failure for SMTP adapter).
      none      -- No signature was present, or no key record
                  was found.  The message is unsigned.
      permerror -- A permanent error occurred (e.g., malformed
                  signature, unsupported algorithm, NXDOMAIN for
                  key record combined with HTTP 404 for .well-known).
      temperror -- A temporary error occurred (e.g., DNS timeout,
                  SERVFAIL, bogus DNSSEC response).  The verifier
                  SHOULD retry.

10.4.  Multiple Signatures

   A message MAY carry multiple signatures.

   For the HTTP adapter, multiple Signature/Signature-Input labels
   may be present (per RFC 9421).  Verifiers SHOULD evaluate all
   signatures with tag="uasi" and make policy decisions based on
   the aggregate result.

   For native adapters, multiple UASI-Signature fields may be
   present (e.g., one from the originator and one from an
   intermediary).

   A common pattern is:

   o  The originating sender signs the message (first signature).
   o  An authorized intermediary (e.g., an API gateway) verifies
      the original signature, then adds its own signature attesting
      to the verified provenance.

   Verifiers receiving multiply-signed messages can choose to trust
   the intermediary's signature (if they have a relationship with
   the intermediary) or verify the original sender's signature
   directly.

10.5.  Verifier Caching

   UASI verification requires DNS queries to retrieve key records
   and policy records.  In high-frequency scenarios (e.g., API
   webhooks at thousands of requests per second), naive per-message
   DNS resolution would impose unacceptable latency and load.

10.5.1.  Key Record Caching

   Verifiers MUST cache UASI key records according to the DNS TTL
   of the record.  A verifier that receives multiple messages from
   the same (domain, selector) pair within a TTL window MUST reuse
   the cached key without issuing additional DNS queries.

   For .well-known responses, verifiers MUST respect the HTTP
   Cache-Control headers.  If no Cache-Control header is present,
   verifiers SHOULD cache the response for 3600 seconds.

10.5.2.  Policy Record Caching

   Verifiers SHOULD cache policy records independently of key
   records.  Policy records typically change less frequently than
   key records and may use longer TTLs.

10.5.3.  Negative Caching

   If a DNS query for a key record returns NXDOMAIN or NODATA, the
   verifier SHOULD cache the negative result for the lesser of:

   o  The SOA minimum TTL from the authoritative response, or
   o  300 seconds (5 minutes)

   This prevents repeated DNS queries for non-existent selectors,
   which could be used as a denial-of-service vector against
   the verifier's DNS resolver.

   If a .well-known request returns HTTP 404, the verifier SHOULD
   cache the negative result for the value of the Cache-Control
   max-age header, or 300 seconds if no Cache-Control header is
   present.

10.5.4.  Cache Warming

   For verifiers with a known set of sender domains (e.g., a
   webhook receiver that has registered with specific SaaS
   providers), pre-fetching key records at startup and refreshing
   them periodically (at TTL intervals) is RECOMMENDED.  This
   eliminates cold-start latency on the first message from each
   sender.


11.  Policy Layer

11.1.  Policy Evaluation

   After verification, the verifier queries the sender domain's
   policy record at _uasi-policy.<domain> (or the per-protocol
   record _uasi-policy._<context>.<domain> if it exists) and
   evaluates the result against the policy.

   Policy evaluation follows two checks:

   Check 1 -- Trust tier:

   If the verification result status is "pass", the verifier checks
   whether the trust_tier meets the minimum required by the mt= tag.

      +-------------------+----------+-----------+-------------+
      | trust_tier        | mt=dnssec| mt=https  | mt=any      |
      +-------------------+----------+-----------+-------------+
      | dnssec-verified   | accept   | accept    | accept      |
      | https-verified    | reject*  | accept    | accept      |
      | dns-unsigned      | reject*  | reject*   | accept      |
      +-------------------+----------+-----------+-------------+

      * Treated as policy failure despite cryptographic pass.

   Check 2 -- Verification status:

      +-------------------+----------+----------+----------+
      | Verification      | p=none   | p=report | p=enforce|
      | Result            |          |          |          |
      +-------------------+----------+----------+----------+
      | pass (tier OK)    | accept   | accept   | accept   |
      | pass (tier fail)  | accept   | accept*  | reject*  |
      | fail              | accept   | accept*  | reject*  |
      | none (unsigned)   | accept   | accept*  | reject*  |
      | permerror         | accept   | accept*  | reject*  |
      | temperror         | accept   | accept   | defer    |
      +-------------------+----------+----------+----------+

      * Subject to the pct= percentage.  If a random value (0-99)
        is >= pct, treat as if policy were "none" for this message.

      "accept" = deliver/process the message normally
      "reject" = refuse the message (protocol-appropriate error)
      "defer"  = temporarily refuse; request retry

11.2.  Reporting

   If rua= or ruf= is specified in the policy record, verifiers
   SHOULD send reports:

   Aggregate reports (rua=):
      Periodic reports (RECOMMENDED: daily) summarizing UASI
      verification results, analogous to DMARC aggregate reports.
      Format: JSON, schema defined in a companion document
      (draft-uasi-report-format).

      Aggregate reports MUST include the trust_tier field for each
      result, enabling domain operators to track the ratio of
      dnssec-verified vs. https-verified vs. dns-unsigned
      verifications.

   Forensic reports (ruf=):
      Per-failure reports containing details of individual
      verification failures.  Due to privacy implications, forensic
      reports are OPTIONAL and SHOULD be rate-limited.

11.2.1.  Report Granularity (rl= Tag)

   The UASI policy record MAY include an "rl=" (report level) tag
   that controls the granularity of information included in
   aggregate reports.  This enables senders to balance operational
   visibility with privacy protection.

   Values:

      rl=d  (Domain):
         Aggregate reports summarize results at the organizational
         domain level only.  Individual selectors, message
         timestamps, and source IP addresses are NOT included.
         This is the most privacy-preserving option.

         RECOMMENDED for: Large IoT fleet operators, organizations
         subject to strict data minimization requirements.

      rl=s  (Selector):
         Aggregate reports include results broken down by selector
         and trust_tier.  This enables senders to identify which
         service or key is experiencing failures and at what trust
         level.  Source IP addresses are included in aggregated
         form (IP ranges, not individual IPs).
         This is the DEFAULT if rl= is not specified.

         RECOMMENDED for: Most deployments.

      rl=f  (Full):
         Forensic-level detail is permitted in aggregate reports,
         including individual message identifiers, timestamps, and
         source IPs.

         RECOMMENDED for: Initial deployment and debugging only.
         Senders SHOULD NOT leave rl=f enabled in production.

11.3.  Protocol-Specific Policy

   The "b=" tag in the policy record allows domains to apply
   different policies to different protocols.  For example:

      _uasi-policy.example.com. TXT (
         "v=UASI1; p=enforce; b=smtp:http; "
         "mt=https; da=relaxed; "
         "rua=https://uasi-reports.example.com/aggregate" )

   This enforces UASI on SMTP and HTTP traffic with HTTPS-level
   minimum trust.

   For finer-grained per-protocol policy (e.g., different mt=
   values per protocol), use per-protocol policy records as
   described in Section 7.2.


12.  Migration and Coexistence

12.1.  Relationship to Existing Mechanisms

   UASI is designed to complement, not replace, existing
   authentication mechanisms:

   DKIM:
      The SMTP adapter wraps DKIM rather than replacing it.
      Domains continue to sign with DKIM; UASI adds cross-protocol
      identity and unified policy.  No migration from DKIM is
      required.

   SPF:
      SPF authenticates the sending IP address, which UASI does
      not.  SPF and UASI are complementary.  Domains SHOULD
      continue to publish SPF records alongside UASI.

   DMARC:
      DMARC aligns SPF and DKIM with the From: domain.  UASI's
      SMTP adapter operates alongside DMARC, not as a replacement.
      See Section 9.2.4.

   HTTP Message Signatures (RFC 9421):
      UASI's HTTP adapter is a profile of RFC 9421.  Applications
      already using RFC 9421 can adopt the UASI profile by setting
      the keyid, tag, and alg parameters per Section 9.1.1 and
      publishing DNS key records.

   mTLS:
      mTLS authenticates the transport endpoint.  UASI authenticates
      the application-layer sender.  The two are complementary.

12.2.  Incremental Deployment Path

   The recommended deployment sequence is:

   Phase 1: Monitor
      Publish a UASI key record and policy record with p=none.
      Begin signing outbound messages.  Monitor via aggregate
      reports.  No receiver-side impact.

      During this phase, senders SHOULD verify that signatures
      survive their actual delivery path, including any
      intermediaries.

   Phase 2: Report
      Change policy to p=report.  Cooperating receivers begin
      verifying and sending reports.  Sender analyzes reports to
      identify unsigned or failing traffic.

   Phase 3: Gradual Enforcement
      Change policy to p=enforce with pct=10, then 25, 50, and
      finally 100 as report data confirms readiness.

   Phase 4: Full Enforcement
      Policy at p=enforce; pct=100 across all relevant protocol
      adapters.

   Phase 5: Trust Tier Escalation
      Once enforcement is stable, operators MAY increase the
      minimum trust tier:
      - Start with mt=any (accept all tiers)
      - Move to mt=https (require WebPKI or DNSSEC)
      - Move to mt=dnssec (require DNSSEC) when DNSSEC deployment
        is confirmed for the domain

   This mirrors the proven DMARC deployment model but applies it
   uniformly across all protocols.

12.2.1.  Recommended Protocol Ordering

   Organizations deploying UASI across multiple protocol adapters
   SHOULD NOT attempt to enable all adapters simultaneously.
   Instead, the following ordering is RECOMMENDED:

   1. HTTP (webhooks/APIs):
      Start here.  The HTTP adapter profiles RFC 9421, which is
      mature and well-supported.  HTTP traffic is the easiest to
      test (synchronous request/response), and webhook receivers
      are likely early adopters.

   2. SMTP (email):
      Add second.  The SMTP adapter wraps existing DKIM, so
      deployment requires only publishing a UASI policy record --
      no changes to email signing infrastructure.  However, allow
      extra time in Monitor and Report phases to analyze DKIM
      alignment results.

   3. MQTT/CoAP/WebSocket (IoT and real-time):
      Add last.  These use native UASI signing, which requires
      client-side library changes.  Ensure HTTP and SMTP adapters
      are stable before adding native adapters.


13.  Security Considerations

13.1.  DNS Dependency

   UASI's security depends on the integrity of key material
   obtained from DNS and, when used, HTTPS endpoints.  The
   three-tier trust model (Section 5) makes this dependency
   explicit rather than hiding it behind a single binary
   "authenticated or not" determination.

   Recommendations:

   o  Domains SHOULD deploy DNSSEC to enable the dnssec-verified
      trust tier.

   o  Domains that deploy DNSSEC SHOULD set mt=dnssec in their
      policy record to prevent downgrade to weaker tiers.

   o  Domains that do not deploy DNSSEC SHOULD serve
      .well-known/uasi-keys to enable the https-verified trust
      tier.

   o  Verifiers SHOULD perform DNSSEC validation where their
      resolver supports it.

   o  Verifiers SHOULD use encrypted DNS transports (DNS-over-TLS
      [RFC7858] or DNS-over-HTTPS [RFC8484]) to protect key
      material in transit from passive observation and on-path
      modification.  See Section 13.7.

13.2.  DNS Blocking and .well-known Downgrade Attack

   An active attacker who can block DNS responses (e.g., via
   network-level filtering or selective packet dropping) could
   force verifiers to fall back to the .well-known HTTPS endpoint.
   If the attacker has also compromised the web server (but not
   DNS), they could serve a malicious key via .well-known.

   This attack is mitigated by:

   o  The key discovery ordering (Section 7.4): DNS is always
      preferred.  .well-known is only consulted when DNS is
      completely unavailable.

   o  The mt= policy tag: Operators who deploy DNSSEC can set
      mt=dnssec, which causes https-verified keys to fail policy.
      An attacker who blocks DNS and serves a malicious .well-known
      key will achieve only an https-verified trust tier, which
      will not satisfy mt=dnssec policy.

   o  Verifier behavior: If DNS was previously available for a
      domain (i.e., the verifier has a cached DNSSEC-validated
      key), sudden DNS unavailability followed by a .well-known
      response with a different key SHOULD be treated as suspicious.
      Verifiers MAY implement a "key pinning" mechanism where a
      previously dnssec-verified key is preferred over a newly
      discovered https-verified key for a configurable transition
      period.

   Residual risk:

   For operators using the default mt=https policy, the DNS
   blocking attack can succeed if the attacker controls both the
   network path (to block DNS) and the web server (to serve a
   malicious key).  This risk is accepted in exchange for practical
   deployability.  Operators for whom this risk is unacceptable
   SHOULD set mt=dnssec.

13.3.  Key Discovery Ordering Security

   The decision to prefer DNS over .well-known (and to not consult
   .well-known when DNS succeeds) prevents a class of attacks where
   an adversary maintains a conflicting key at the .well-known
   endpoint.  If both sources were treated as equal, an attacker
   who compromises the web server could serve a malicious key even
   when DNS is intact and returns the legitimate key.

   The trade-off is that the .well-known endpoint is only useful
   when DNS fails entirely.  This is intentional: it ensures that
   the stronger trust path (DNS, especially with DNSSEC) is always
   preferred.

13.4.  Key Compromise

   If a UASI private key is compromised, the attacker can forge
   signatures for the affected selector until the key is rotated.

   Mitigation:
   o  Use per-service selectors to limit blast radius.
   o  Set short key expiration times (x= tag).
   o  Monitor aggregate reports for unexpected signing activity
      or unexpected trust tier distributions.
   o  Rotate keys immediately upon suspected compromise.
   o  Use automated key rotation (Section 6.5) to reduce the
      window of exposure.

13.5.  Replay Attacks

   An attacker who observes a validly signed message can replay it.

   Mitigation:
   o  Cross-protocol replay is prevented by the adapter-specific
      mechanisms described in Section 8.4 (z= tag for native
      adapters, tag parameter for HTTP, structural binding for
      SMTP).
   o  The timestamp and expiry mechanisms limit the temporal
      validity window.
   o  The nonce mechanism (Section 8.5) enables intra-protocol
      replay detection.
   o  Senders SHOULD use short signature validity windows
      (RECOMMENDED: 5 minutes for webhooks, 1 hour for email,
      5 minutes for IoT commands).

13.6.  Canonicalization Brittleness

   Canonicalization -- the process of normalizing message content
   before signing -- is the most common cause of spurious signature
   failures in deployed authentication systems.

   For the HTTP adapter, this concern is mitigated by profiling
   RFC 9421, which has a well-defined component coverage model.
   Senders control exactly which components are signed.

   For native adapters, the "simple" canonicalization mode used by
   MQTT and CoAP avoids most normalization issues, as binary
   protocols preserve payload integrity.

   For the SMTP adapter, canonicalization is handled entirely by
   DKIM and is not a UASI concern.

   The Phase 1 (Monitor) and Phase 2 (Report) stages of the
   deployment path (Section 12.2) exist specifically to identify
   and resolve signature survival issues before enforcement.

13.7.  DNS Query Privacy

   UASI verification requires DNS queries of the form
   <selector>._uasi.<domain> for every distinct sender.  These
   queries reveal to DNS resolvers (and any entity on the network
   path to the resolver) which domains are communicating with
   the verifier.

   Mitigation:

   o  Verifiers SHOULD use encrypted DNS transports:
      - DNS-over-TLS (DoT) [RFC7858]
      - DNS-over-HTTPS (DoH) [RFC8484]

   o  Verifiers SHOULD use a trusted recursive resolver to limit
      exposure of query patterns to third parties.

   o  Aggressive caching (Section 10.5) reduces the frequency of
      queries.

   o  QNAME minimization [RFC9156] reduces the information exposed
      to authoritative servers along the resolution chain.

   o  .well-known key retrieval over HTTPS exposes key requests
      to the domain's web server operator (who is also the key
      publisher and therefore already knows the key).  It does not
      introduce new privacy exposure compared to DNS queries.

13.8.  Privacy Considerations

   UASI signatures reveal the sender domain and selector to any
   on-path observer.  This is generally not a new privacy exposure
   (the sender is typically visible in transport headers), but it
   does formalize the association.

   Aggregate and forensic reports may contain metadata about
   message flows.  Operators SHOULD handle reports as sensitive
   data and apply appropriate access controls.

   The trust_tier field in verification results and reports reveals
   the DNSSEC deployment status of the sender's domain.  This is
   generally observable via other means (DNSSEC validation is
   public) but is formalized in UASI reports.

13.9.  Algorithm Agility

   UASI supports algorithm agility through the key record "k=" tag
   and the IANA algorithm registry (Section 14.3).  When new
   algorithms are registered, senders can publish new key records
   and signers can produce signatures using the new algorithm.

   During algorithm transitions, senders SHOULD publish keys under
   both the old and new algorithms (using different selectors) and
   sign messages with both algorithms until the old algorithm is
   deprecated.  This mirrors DKIM's algorithm transition pattern.

13.10.  .well-known Endpoint Security

   The .well-known/uasi-keys endpoint serves public key material
   over HTTPS.  Security considerations for this endpoint:

   o  The endpoint MUST use TLS 1.2 or later.  TLS 1.3 is
      RECOMMENDED.

   o  The endpoint MUST present a certificate valid for the domain
      in question.  Self-signed certificates MUST NOT be accepted
      by verifiers.

   o  Domain operators SHOULD implement rate limiting on the
      endpoint to prevent abuse.

   o  The endpoint serves only public keys (not private keys or
      shared secrets), so a compromise of the endpoint's data
      does not directly enable forgery.  However, an attacker who
      can modify the endpoint's responses can serve malicious
      keys, enabling man-in-the-middle signing.  This is why
      DNS is preferred and .well-known is a fallback only.


14.  IANA Considerations

14.1.  DNS Underscore Label Registration

   This document registers the following underscore labels in the
   "Underscored and Globally Scoped DNS Node Names" registry
   [RFC8552]:

      _uasi         -- UASI key records
      _uasi-policy  -- UASI policy records

14.2.  HTTP Header Field Registration

   This document registers the following HTTP header field in the
   "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Field Name Registry":

      Field name: UASI-Authentication-Results
      Status: permanent
      Specification: This document, Section 9.1.5

   Note: The UASI HTTP adapter uses the Signature and Signature-
   Input header fields defined by [RFC9421].  No new HTTP signature
   header fields are registered.

14.3.  UASI Algorithm Registry

   IANA is requested to create a "UASI Signing Algorithms" registry
   with the following initial entries:

      +------------------+-------------+----------+
      | Algorithm        | Status      | Reference|
      +------------------+-------------+----------+
      | ed25519          | REQUIRED    | RFC 8032 |
      | es256            | RECOMMENDED | (*)      |
      +------------------+-------------+----------+

      (*) ECDSA P-256 as defined in FIPS 186-4.

   New entries require Standards Action or IESG Approval.

14.4.  UASI Protocol Context Registry

   IANA is requested to create a "UASI Protocol Context Tags"
   registry with the following initial entries:

      +------------+-----------+----------+
      | Context    | Adapter   | Reference|
      +------------+-----------+----------+
      | smtp       | profiling | Sec 9.2  |
      | http       | profiling | Sec 9.1  |
      | mqtt5      | native    | Sec 9.3  |
      | coap       | native    | Sec 9.4  |
      | websocket  | native    | Sec 9.5  |
      +------------+-----------+----------+

   New entries require Specification Required with Expert Review.

14.5.  UASI Policy Tag Registry

   IANA is requested to create a "UASI Policy Tags" registry with
   the following initial entries:

      +--------+--------------------------------------+----------+
      | Tag    | Description                          | Reference|
      +--------+--------------------------------------+----------+
      | v      | Version                              | Sec 7.2  |
      | p      | Policy mode                          | Sec 7.2  |
      | rua    | Aggregate reporting URI               | Sec 7.2  |
      | ruf    | Forensic reporting URI                | Sec 7.2  |
      | pct    | Policy application percentage        | Sec 7.2  |
      | sp     | Subdomain policy                     | Sec 7.2  |
      | b      | Protocol binding scope               | Sec 7.2  |
      | rl     | Report granularity level             | Sec 7.2  |
      | mt     | Minimum trust tier                   | Sec 7.2  |
      | da     | DKIM alignment mode                  | Sec 7.2  |
      +--------+--------------------------------------+----------+

   New entries require Standards Action or IESG Approval.

14.6.  CoAP Option Number Registration

   This document requests assignment of a CoAP Option Number for
   the UASI-Signature option in the "CoAP Option Numbers" registry:

      Option Name: UASI-Signature
      Option Number: TBD
      Reference: This document, Section 9.4

14.7.  Well-Known URI Registration

   This document registers the following well-known URI in the
   "Well-Known URIs" registry [RFC8615]:

      URI Suffix: uasi-keys
      Change Controller: IETF
      Reference: This document, Section 7.3
      Status: permanent


15.  References

15.1.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997.

   [RFC4033]  Arends, R., et al., "DNS Security Introduction and
              Requirements", RFC 4033, March 2005.

   [RFC6376]  Crocker, D., Hansen, T., and M. Kucherawy,
              "DomainKeys Identified Mail (DKIM) Signatures",
              STD 76, RFC 6376, September 2011.

   [RFC7858]  Hu, Z., et al., "Specification for DNS over Transport
              Layer Security (TLS)", RFC 7858, May 2016.

   [RFC8032]  Josefsson, S. and I. Liusvaara, "Edwards-Curve
              Digital Signature Algorithm (EdDSA)", RFC 8032,
              January 2017.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in
              RFC 2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, May 2017.

   [RFC8484]  Hoffman, P. and P. McManus, "DNS Queries over HTTPS
              (DoH)", RFC 8484, October 2018.

   [RFC8552]  Crocker, D., "Scoped Interpretation of DNS Resource
              Records through 'Underscored' Naming of Attribute
              Leaves", BCP 222, RFC 8552, March 2019.

   [RFC8615]  Nottingham, M., "Well-Known Uniform Resource
              Identifiers (URIs)", RFC 8615, May 2019.

   [RFC9156]  Bortzmeyer, S., et al., "DNS Query Name
              Minimisation to Improve Privacy", RFC 9156,
              November 2021.

   [RFC9421]  Backman, A., et al., "HTTP Message Signatures",
              RFC 9421, February 2024.

   [RFC9530]  Polli, R. and L. Pardue, "Digest Fields",
              RFC 9530, February 2024.

15.2.  Informative References

   [RFC7030]  Pritikin, M., et al., "Enrollment over Secure
              Transport", RFC 7030, October 2013.

   [RFC7208]  Kitterman, S., "Sender Policy Framework (SPF)",
              RFC 7208, April 2014.

   [RFC7489]  Kucherawy, M. and E. Zwicky, "Domain-based Message
              Authentication, Reporting, and Conformance (DMARC)",
              RFC 7489, March 2015.

   [RFC7671]  Dukhovni, V. and W. Hardaker, "The DNS-Based
              Authentication of Named Entities (DANE) Protocol:
              Updates and Operational Guidance", RFC 7671,
              October 2015.

   Note on normative references to Informational RFCs: This document
   makes a normative reference to RFC 8032 (EdDSA), which defines
   the mandatory-to-implement signing algorithm.  RFC 8032 is widely
   referenced normatively by Standards Track documents and is
   expected to receive IESG approval as a downref during Last Call.


Appendix A.  Example Flows

A.1.  HTTP Webhook Verification

   This example shows a SaaS provider (saas.example.com) sending
   a webhook to a customer (customer.example.org), using the HTTP
   adapter (RFC 9421 profile) with Content-Digest and nonce-based
   replay detection.

   Setup (one-time):

   1. saas.example.com generates an Ed25519 key pair.
   2. saas.example.com publishes:

      webhooks._uasi.saas.example.com. 86400 IN TXT (
         "v=UASI1; k=ed25519; p=BASE64PUBKEY==;" )

      _uasi-policy.saas.example.com. 86400 IN TXT (
         "v=UASI1; p=enforce; mt=https; b=http; "
         "rua=mailto:uasi@saas.example.com" )

   3. saas.example.com also serves:

      GET https://saas.example.com/.well-known/uasi-keys/webhooks
      -> {"v": "UASI1", "k": "ed25519", "p": "BASE64PUBKEY=="}

   Sending:

   4. saas.example.com sends a webhook:

      POST /webhooks/orders HTTP/1.1
      Host: customer.example.org
      Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
      Content-Digest: sha-256=:X48E9qOokqqrvdts8nOJRJN3OWDUoyWxBf7=:
      X-Webhook-Event: order.completed
      X-Request-Id: req-789
      Signature-Input: uasi-sig=("@method" "@authority" "@path"
        "content-type" "content-digest" "x-webhook-event"
        "x-request-id");keyid="webhooks._uasi.saas.example.com";
        alg="ed25519";tag="uasi";created=1710500000;
        expires=1710500300;nonce="550e8400-e29b-41d4"
      Signature: uasi-sig=:Ed25519SignatureValue=:

      {"order_id":"789","total":99.50}

   Verification:

   5. customer.example.org extracts Signature-Input, finds label
      "uasi-sig" with tag="uasi".

   6. Parses keyid="webhooks._uasi.saas.example.com", extracts
      selector="webhooks", domain="saas.example.com".

   7. Key discovery: queries DNS for
      webhooks._uasi.saas.example.com.  DNS returns an unsigned
      response with the key record.  Trust tier: dns-unsigned.

   8. However, mt=https requires at minimum https-verified.
      dns-unsigned does not satisfy mt=https.

      Alternative flow: If the domain has DNSSEC, trust tier
      would be dnssec-verified (satisfies mt=https).  Or if DNS
      had failed and .well-known was used, trust tier would be
      https-verified (satisfies mt=https).

      For this example, assume the domain has DNSSEC:
      Trust tier: dnssec-verified.

   9. Verifies the RFC 9421 signature using the cached Ed25519
      key.  Signature valid.

   10. Checks nonce cache for (saas.example.com, webhooks,
       550e8400-e29b-41d4).  Not found -- nonce is fresh.

   11. Adds nonce to cache with TTL = 300 seconds.

   12. Queries policy: p=enforce, mt=https.  dnssec-verified
       satisfies mt=https.  Status: pass.

   13. Structured result:
       {
         "status": "pass",
         "trust_tier": "dnssec-verified",
         "protocol": "http",
         "identity": "webhooks._uasi.saas.example.com"
       }

A.2.  SMTP with DKIM Alignment

   A domain using DKIM with UASI policy for unified reporting:

   Setup:

   1. example.com already has DKIM deployed:

      google-2026._domainkey.example.com. 3600 IN TXT (
         "v=DKIM1; k=rsa; p=..." )

   2. example.com adds UASI policy:

      _uasi-policy.example.com. 3600 IN TXT (
         "v=UASI1; p=report; da=relaxed; mt=any; "
         "rua=mailto:uasi@example.com" )

   Email flow:

   3. example.com sends email with DKIM signature:

      DKIM-Signature: v=1; a=rsa-sha256; d=example.com;
         s=google-2026; ... [standard DKIM signature]
      From: ceo@example.com
      To: board@example.org
      Subject: Q1 Results

   4. Receiving MTA performs DKIM verification: pass.

   5. UASI verification engine:
      - DKIM d=example.com matches UASI policy domain
      - da=relaxed: any DKIM selector accepted
      - DKIM result: pass
      - DKIM key lookup was unsigned: trust tier = dns-unsigned
      - mt=any: dns-unsigned is accepted

   6. Structured result:
      {
        "status": "pass",
        "trust_tier": "dns-unsigned",
        "protocol": "smtp",
        "identity": "google-2026._uasi.example.com"
      }

   7. Since p=report, the result is logged and included in the
      next aggregate report to uasi@example.com.

A.3.  MQTT IoT Telemetry

   A temperature sensor (part of a fleet managed by
   iot.example.com) publishes readings via MQTT using UASI
   native signing.

   Setup:

   1. iot.example.com generates an Ed25519 key pair for the fleet.
   2. iot.example.com publishes:

      fleet-a._uasi.iot.example.com. 3600 IN TXT (
         "v=UASI1; k=ed25519; p=BASE64PUBKEY==; "
         "n=Fleet A temperature sensors" )

      _uasi-policy.iot.example.com. 3600 IN TXT (
         "v=UASI1; p=enforce; mt=any; b=mqtt5" )

   Sending (MQTT v5 PUBLISH):

   3. Topic: sensors/building-7/temp
      Payload: {"temp_c": 22.5, "ts": 1710500000}
      User Property:
         UASI-Signature: v=1; a=ed25519-sha256;
            d=iot.example.com; s=fleet-a; t=1710500000;
            z=mqtt5; c=simple;
            h=@topic:@content-type;
            bh=PayloadHash==;
            b=Ed25519SigValue==

   Verification:

   4. Data ingestion platform extracts UASI-Signature.
   5. Parses d=iot.example.com, s=fleet-a.
   6. Key discovery: DNS returns unsigned response.
      Trust tier: dns-unsigned.
   7. Verifies Ed25519 signature.  Pass.
   8. No nonce (telemetry is idempotent).
   9. Policy: p=enforce, mt=any.  dns-unsigned accepted.

   10. Result:
       {
         "status": "pass",
         "trust_tier": "dns-unsigned",
         "protocol": "mqtt5",
         "identity": "fleet-a._uasi.iot.example.com"
       }

A.4.  Key Discovery with .well-known Fallback

   This example demonstrates the key discovery fallback path.

   1. Verifier receives an HTTP webhook with
      keyid="api._uasi.sender.example.com".

   2. Key discovery:
      a. Queries DNS for api._uasi.sender.example.com.
      b. DNS returns SERVFAIL (resolver error).
      c. Falls back to .well-known:
         GET https://sender.example.com/.well-known/uasi-keys/api
      d. Response:
         {"v": "UASI1", "k": "ed25519", "p": "BASE64KEY=="}
      e. Trust tier: https-verified.

   3. Verification proceeds normally with the retrieved key.

   4. If sender's policy is mt=https: https-verified satisfies
      the policy.  If mt=dnssec: https-verified does NOT satisfy,
      and the result is treated as a policy failure.

A.5.  WebSocket Per-Message Signing

   A real-time data feed using WebSocket with per-message signing:

   1. Client connects via WebSocket.  The HTTP Upgrade request
      is signed using the HTTP adapter (Section 9.1).

   2. After the handshake, the server sends per-message signatures:

      Binary frame:
      [00 8A]                          <- Sig length: 138 bytes
      [v=1; a=ed25519-sha256; d=feed.example.com; s=realtime;
       t=1710500000; z=websocket; c=simple;
       n=msg-00001; bh=hash==; b=sig==]  <- UASI-Signature
      [{"price": 42.50, "sym": "ACME"}]  <- Payload

   3. Receiver extracts first 2 bytes (00 8A = 138), reads 138
      bytes of signature, remainder is payload.

   4. Verifies using standard UASI native adapter procedure.


Appendix B.  Comparison with Existing Mechanisms

   +------------------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
   | Feature          | DKIM   | SPF    | RFC9421| mTLS   | UASI   |
   +------------------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
   | Protocol scope   | Email  | Email  | HTTP   | Any/TLS| Any    |
   | Authenticates    | Domain | IP     | Signer | Cert   | Domain |
   | Key distribution | DNS    | DNS    | App    | PKI/CA | DNS+WK |
   | Policy framework | (DMARC)| (DMARC)| No     | No     | Yes    |
   | Body signing     | Yes    | No     | Yes    | No(1)  | Yes    |
   | Cross-protocol   | No     | No     | No     | N/A    | Yes    |
   | Replay protect   | Partial| N/A    | Partial| Yes    | Yes(2) |
   | IoT suitable     | No     | No     | No     | Heavy  | Yes    |
   | Trust tiers      | 1(3)   | 1(3)   | N/A    | PKI    | 3(4)   |
   | Delegation       | CNAME  | incl   | Manual | SubCA  | CNAME  |
   +------------------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+

   (1) mTLS secures the channel, not individual messages.
   (2) Cross-protocol via z= tag / RFC 9421 tag parameter /
       structural binding.  Intra-protocol via nonce mechanism.
   (3) Effectively dns-unsigned only for most deployments.
   (4) dnssec-verified, https-verified, dns-unsigned.

   Key difference from -00: UASI now profiles RFC 9421 for HTTP
   and wraps DKIM for SMTP, rather than defining new signing
   formats for these protocols.  The "Key distribution" column
   now shows "DNS+WK" reflecting the .well-known fallback.


Appendix C.  Selector Management Patterns

C.1.  Microservice Architecture

   A microservice deployment with 50 services, each with its own
   selector:

   Naming convention:
      <service-name>-<YYYYMMDD>._uasi.<domain>

   Example:
      order-svc-20260315._uasi.api.example.com
      payment-svc-20260315._uasi.api.example.com
      notification-svc-20260315._uasi.api.example.com

   Automation:
      The CI/CD pipeline generates a new key pair on each quarterly
      rotation, publishes the new selector via DNS API, updates the
      service's signing configuration, and schedules the old
      selector for deletion after 48 hours (old TTL + delivery
      buffer).  The pipeline also updates the .well-known endpoint.

   Monitoring:
      A cron job queries all *._uasi.api.example.com selectors and
      alerts if any key's "x=" expiry is within 7 days.

C.2.  IoT Fleet

   A fleet of 5,000 sensors divided into 5 groups of 1,000:

   Naming convention:
      fleet-<group>-<YYYYMM>._uasi.<domain>

   Example:
      fleet-a-202603._uasi.iot.example.com
      fleet-b-202603._uasi.iot.example.com
      ...
      fleet-e-202603._uasi.iot.example.com

   Key material:
      Each group uses Ed25519 public key signing.  The private key
      is provisioned to devices during enrollment.  For constrained
      devices unable to perform public key cryptography, see the
      companion document draft-uasi-constrained.

C.3.  SaaS Provider with Customer Delegation

   A SaaS provider (saas.example.com) sending webhooks on behalf
   of 1,000 customers:

   Customer DNS setup (one CNAME per customer):
      webhooks._uasi.customer1.com. CNAME wh._uasi.saas.example.com.
      webhooks._uasi.customer2.com. CNAME wh._uasi.saas.example.com.

   SaaS provider manages:
      A single key pair under wh._uasi.saas.example.com.
      Signatures use keyid="webhooks._uasi.customer1.com" (the
      customer's UASI identity).  Verifiers resolve via CNAME to
      the SaaS provider's key.

   This scales linearly: adding a new customer requires one CNAME
   record, not a new key pair.


Appendix D.  Changes from draft-uasi-framework-00

   This appendix summarizes the changes between
   draft-uasi-framework-00 and draft-uasi-framework-01.  This
   is a major revision motivated by review feedback on the
   secdispatch mailing list.

D.1.  Removed

   o  Custom UASI-Signature format for HTTP.  Replaced by a
      profile of RFC 9421 (HTTP Message Signatures).

   o  Custom UASI signing for SMTP.  Replaced by DKIM alignment
      model -- UASI wraps existing DKIM rather than adding a
      second email signature.

   o  Trust-On-First-Use (TOFU) security model and all language
      describing or defending TOFU semantics.  Replaced by the
      three-tier trust model (dnssec-verified, https-verified,
      dns-unsigned).

   o  KDF-hint constrained device model (previously Section 12.4).
      Deferred to a companion document (draft-uasi-constrained).

   o  kdf-hmac-sha256 algorithm from the IANA algorithm registry.

   o  IANA KDF Algorithm Registry (was Section 13.5 in -00).

   o  rs256 (RSA-2048) algorithm.  Deferred pending demonstrated
      interoperability demand.

   o  Normative reference to RFC 5869 (HKDF), which was required
      only by the KDF-hint model.

D.2.  Added

   o  .well-known/uasi-keys HTTPS endpoint for key discovery when
      DNS is unavailable (Section 7.3).

   o  Three trust tiers: dnssec-verified, https-verified,
      dns-unsigned (Section 5).

   o  Key discovery procedure with explicit ordering: DNS first,
      .well-known fallback (Section 7.4).

   o  mt= (minimum trust) policy tag allowing domain operators to
      set the minimum acceptable trust tier (Section 7.2).

   o  da= (DKIM alignment) policy tag for the SMTP adapter
      (Section 7.2).

   o  Protocol adapter architecture with profiling adapters (HTTP,
      SMTP) and native adapters (MQTT, CoAP, WebSocket)
      (Section 9).

   o  HTTP adapter profiling RFC 9421 with keyid=UID, tag="uasi",
      Content-Digest requirement (Section 9.1).

   o  SMTP adapter wrapping DKIM with alignment rules
      (Section 9.2).

   o  WebSocket binary prefix format for per-message signing
      (Section 9.5.2).

   o  CoAP compact binary encoding for constrained environments
      (Section 9.4.5).

   o  trust_tier field in verification results and aggregate
      reports (Section 10.2, Section 11.2).

   o  Per-protocol policy records
      (_uasi-policy._<context>.<domain>) (Section 7.2).

   o  Security analysis of DNS blocking / .well-known downgrade
      attack (Section 13.2).

   o  IANA registration for .well-known URI suffix "uasi-keys"
      (Section 14.7).

   o  IANA Policy Tag Registry (Section 14.5).

   o  Normative references to RFC 9421 (HTTP Message Signatures)
      and RFC 9530 (Digest Fields).

   o  Informative reference to RFC 7671 (DANE).

D.3.  Unchanged

   o  UASI Identity (UID) namespace and
      <selector>._uasi.<domain> format.

   o  DNS key record format (minus KDF entries and rs256).

   o  Ed25519 as mandatory-to-implement algorithm.

   o  Native UASI-Signature format for MQTT, CoAP, and WebSocket
      (extended with compact encodings for CoAP and binary prefix
      for WebSocket).

   o  Nonce-based replay detection mechanism.

   o  Policy record format (extended with mt= and da= tags).

   o  Canonicalization modes (simple, relaxed, strict) for native
      adapters.

   o  Problem statement (Sections 3.1-3.3) largely preserved.

   o  Selector management guidance (Section 6.5).

   o  Delegation via CNAME (Section 6.3).


Acknowledgements

   The authors thank Eric Rescorla for detailed review of
   draft-uasi-framework-00 on the IETF secdispatch mailing list.
   His feedback on the DNSSEC dependency and the relationship to
   existing signing standards motivated the architectural revision
   in this version, including the protocol adapter model and the
   three-tier trust framework.


Authors' Addresses

   Martin Welen (editor)
   Atea Sverige AB
   Sweden
   Email: martin@welen.com
